Senior Manager, Data Analytics & Management

Responsibilities:

Hires, evaluates, and supervises crew. Provides guidance and training as necessary to develop crew. Sets performance standards, reviews performance, and makes informed compensation decisions in accordance with all applicable Human Resources policies and procedures.
Provides leadership and approvals for the adoption and or implementation of data analytics tools. Acts as a point of escalation for time sensitive and highly complex requests. Develops an enterprise-wide view of analytics capabilities; identifies gaps and proposes solutions.
Leads team in consulting with business partners to help establish efficient analytics and business intelligence tools, frameworks, and capabilities. Educates business leaders about self-service tools and provides support for teams as they stand up internal functions.
Builds, partners, and consults with senior management to deliver analytical insights on Vanguard's strategy and client base. Ensures crew on team are partnering effectively as consultants for business functions to deliver actionable insights and solutions. Balances data management strategy, governance, and quality to ensure consistency across teams.
Participates in the development of the department budget, including the identification of technology investments and budget allocation to support these tools. Reviews expense and ensure unit operates within budgetary guidelines.
Keeps abreast of industry, market, and company trends. Ensures that Vanguard's use of analytics tools is scalable and sustainable. Serves as a leader of Vanguard's analytics community and contributes expertise. Represents Vanguard in external industry events and proactively forms external relationships to bring in new ideas, technology, and talents.
Participates in special projects and performs other duties as assigned.
Qualifications:

Minimum of eight years of related work experience.
Technical Skills – AI Ecosystem, Python SQL, Tableau Preferred
Undergraduate degree or equivalent combination of training and experience. Graduate degree preferred.