
Principal Reliability Engineer
Location tucson, Arizona, United States of America Category Engineering RTX Raytheon Job Type Full time Onsite Relocation Eligible Job ID: 01860041
Save this job

Date Posted:
2026-07-16

Country:
United States of America

Location:
US-AZ-TUCSON-801 ~ 1151 E Hermans Rd ~ BLDG 801 (External Site)

Position Role Type:
Onsite

U.S. Citizen, U.S. Person, or Immigration Status Requirements:
Active and transferable U.S. government issued security clearance is required prior to start date.​ U.S. citizenship is required, as only U.S. citizens are eligible for a security clearance​

Security Clearance Type:
DoD Clearance: Secret

Security Clearance Status:
Ability to obtain INTERIM U.S. government issued security clearance is required prior to start date

At RTX, the world's largest aerospace and defense company, 185,000 great minds are united by purpose and inspired to make a difference solving the world’s most complex problems. With our three market leading businesses, world-class operations and investments in research and development, we offer capabilities and opportunity no one else can. Together, we push the boundaries of known science and find new ways to connect and protect our world. 

Raytheon brings the strength of more than 100 years of experience and renowned engineering expertise to meet the needs of today’s mission and stay ahead of tomorrow’s threat. We deliver solutions that help our nation and allies defend freedoms and deter aggression, creating a safer, more secure world. Join us and help shape the future of aerospace and defense.

Lifecycle Engineering is responsible for ensuring our products are Safe, Reliable, Maintainable and delivered on time.  Life Cycle Engineering consists of multiple disciplines that support engineering, our program offices and our customers.  Our Life Cycle Engineering disciplines participate in the total life cycle of our products from conception to deactivation.  Our focus area is product support, including the following engineering disciplines:  Reliability, System Safety and Supportability. We are looking for a Principal Reliability Engineer to join our team located in Tucson, AZ.
 

What You Will Do:

    Develop and implement reliability strategy across multiple product phases including development, production and sustainment.
    Support and/or lead a reliability engineering team consisting of varying levels of experience.
    Lead analysis efforts supporting system design with respect to Product Reliability, Maintainability, and Failure Reporting and Corrective Action.
    Lead in reliability disciplines including FMECA, Predictions, Derating, ESS and ALT.
    Coach other Reliability engineers and work with functional leadership in identifying and implementing Reliability engineering development.
    Review technical documentation for accuracy and compliance with existing standards.
     

Qualifications You Must Have:

    Typically requires a degree in Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathematics (STEM) and a minimum of 8 years of prior relevant experience.
    Experience with Failure Modes Effects Criticality Analysis (FMECA), Reliability Predictions, (Environmental Stress Screening) ESS, Derating and/or Failure reporting, analysis or corrective actions system (FRACAS).
    Ability to obtain Interim Secret U.S. government issued security clearance is required prior to start date.

Qualifications We Prefer:

    Experience in leading multidisciplinary engineering teams.
    Customer focus and collaboration skills.
    Excellent written and oral communication skills; knowledge of MS Office tools, and experience in the preparation and presentation of briefing material.
    Ability to review technical documentation for accuracy and compliance with existing standards with the ability to identify concerns, suggest solutions, and follow through to closure.
     

What We Offer:

    Our values drive our actions, behaviors, and performance with a vision for a safer, more connected world. At RTX we value: Safety, Trust, Respect, Accountability, Collaboration, and Innovation.
     Relocation Eligibility - Yes
