Data Science Manager- Avail
Realtor.com · Austin, TX

About the job

Recognized as the No. 1 site trusted by real estate professionals, Realtor.com® has been at the forefront of online real estate for over 25 years, connecting buyers, sellers, and renters with trusted insights and expert guidance to find their perfect home. Through its robust suite of tools, Realtor.com® not only makes a significant impact on the real estate industry at large, but for consumers, navigating the biggest purchase they will make in their life, by providing a user experience that is easy to use, easy to understand, and most of all, easy to make decisions.

Join us on our mission to empower more people to find their way home by breaking barriers to entry, making the right connections, and building confidence through expert guidance.


About the Role

Realtor.com is a two-sided platform helping match the consumers on our site and apps to our paying customers. The Data Science & Analytics team at Realtor.com provides trusted data and insights to optimize every aspect of consumer/customer experience and to drive the company’s commercial performance. 


Avail (part of Realtor.com) is a fast-growing platform transforming how independent landlords and tenants manage the rental experience. Built with the spirit of a startup and backed by the scale and stability of a leading digital real estate company, Avail provides a complete suite of tools, resources, and education to help landlords manage their properties with confidence and professionalism. As part of the Avail team, you’ll have the opportunity to make a meaningful impact – shaping the future of this rapidly expanding brand and helping to reimagine the rental industry for millions across the U.S..


We are looking for a hands-on, experienced manager to lead a team of 3-4 data scientists and business analysts, acting as a trusted partner to the Avail leadership team and working closely with them to address critical business questions. As the dedicated data science leader for Avail, this role supports all of Avail’s business functions including product, marketing, payment operations, compliance, and customer support; and plays a critical part in driving key strategies and decisions on how to improve customer acquisition, retention, sales, and growth.

This is a job for a full-stack data scientist with leadership skills and significant experience in stakeholder management and project management. You are expected to not just react to needs/asks but also actively identify opportunities to move the needle in meaningful ways, in close partnership with the Head of Avail and all of the functional leaders.


What you’ll do

    Lead and mentor a team of data scientists and business analysts, providing technical guidance and career coaching, establishing the frameworks for managing and executing work, ensuring quality of work and on-time completion, and fostering a culture of collaboration and innovation.
    Develop data and analytics strategies that are aligned with business goals and priorities. 
    Partner closely with stakeholders to understand/clarify needs and requirements, and work with team members to conduct analysis and/or develop data science solutions to address the needs. 
    Work with large and complex data sets to solve a wide array of challenging problems using different data science methods including but not limited to regression, classification, time series, cluster analysis, and advanced machine learning algorithms. 
    Create trusted analytic data layers that serve as the single version of truth and enable wide access to key data and metrics.
    Build and continuously improve reporting capabilities (e.g., Mixpanel and Tableau dashboards) that provide self-serve access to valuable insights about the business and empower decision making. Carry out deep-dive analysis to explain observations and trends.
    Build data science models to surface actionable insights from large and complex data, predict trends or customer propensity, and optimize operations and resource allocations. 
    Design and execute experimentation to test business hypotheses, prepare test readouts, and provide data-driven recommendations. 
    Prepare deliverables and regularly present work to technical and non-technical audiences. You will convince and influence leaders using clear insights and recommendations, and build credibility through structure and clarity.
    Build strong partnerships with a wide range of cross-functional stakeholders and actively identify and unlock opportunities to improve business performance with data and analytics. 
    Closely collaborate across the Data Science & Analytics organization to ensure broad adoption of data science and analytics initiatives to drive value for the business.


What you’ll bring

We are looking for a player-coach leader who’s intellectually curious, passionate about solving complex business problems using data and analytics, and is able to move fast while maintaining focus on high-impact projects. 


Minimum Qualifications

    Bachelor’s degree, ideally in a quantitative field (e.g., Statistics, Applied Mathematics, Operations Research, Industrial Engineering, Econometrics, Data Science, Computer Science).
    6+ years of professional experience in data science and analytics, with 2+ years experience managing people.
    SQL fluency is a must, with 5+ years of experience.
    3+ years of experience using a scripting language like Python or R. 
    Significant experience with experimentation in a business context, including test design, execution, tracking and analysis of results, and readout/recommendations.
    Strong communication skills for stakeholder engagement and team leadership.
    Proven experience using data and analytics to drive revenue and other business KPIs, and doing so in a proactive manner by actively seeking to identify opportunities.
    Experience in collaborating with cross-functional partners.
    Experience managing multiple priorities and adapting to changing business needs. 


Preferred Qualifications 

    Master's or Ph.D. degree in a quantitative field or in Business Analytics with a strong quantitative background.
    Experience with cloud-based data environments such as Snowflake and AWS.
    Experience building and managing analytic data layers. Knowledge of ETL processes, data environments, data governance principles, etc. Knowledge of DBT, Airflow, and Snowflake preferred.
    Experience in leading reporting/data visualization capabilities (using Tableau or similar tools). Understanding of infrastructure, monitoring, and alerting necessary to support highly visible and business-critical reporting.
    Demonstrated ability to develop a roadmap for complex technical initiatives and effectively communicate progress against that roadmap.


