https://boards.greenhouse.io/embed/job_app?token=6964884&gh_src=8c01b2f01&source=LinkedIn

Senior Analytics Manager, Auto
at Upstart (View all jobs)
United States | Remote

About Upstart

Upstart is the leading AI lending marketplace partnering with banks and credit unions to expand access to affordable credit. By leveraging Upstart's AI marketplace, Upstart-powered banks and credit unions can have higher approval rates and lower loss rates across races, ages, and genders, while simultaneously delivering the exceptional digital-first lending experience their customers demand. More than 80% of borrowers are approved instantly, with zero documentation to upload.

Upstart is a digital-first company, which means that most Upstarters live and work anywhere in the United States. However, we also have offices in San Mateo, California; Columbus, Ohio; and Austin, Texas.

Most Upstarters join us because they connect with our mission of enabling access to effortless credit based on true risk. If you are energized by the impact you can make at Upstart, we’d love to hear from you!

The Team

Upstart’s Auto Analytics team is central to data-driven decision-making for both our Auto Refinance and Auto Retail Lending (new-purchase) businesses. As Senior Analytics Manager, you will lead and develop a high-performing team, building scalable analytical frameworks and capabilities that unlock insights and accelerate growth across our auto-lending portfolio.

 

Position Location - This role is available in the following locations: Remote, USA; San Mateo, CA; Columbus, OH

Travel Requirements - As a digital first company, the majority of your work can be accomplished remotely. The majority of our employees can live and work anywhere in the U.S but are encouraged to to still spend high quality time in-person collaborating via regular onsites. The in-person sessions’ cadence varies depending on the team and role; most teams meet once or twice per quarter for 2-4 consecutive days at a time.

 

How you’ll make an impact:

    Lead and elevate the Auto Analytics team—set a clear vision, recruit top talent, and continually enhance the team’s technical foundations.
    Own end-to-end analytics for Auto Refinance and Auto Retail Lending, championing best-in-class practices and data-driven decisions across growth & sales, product, pricing, market opportunity assessments, business-intelligence development, and more.
    Act as a pivotal cross-functional leader, partnering closely with Auto business, Product, Engineering, ML, Finance, Analytics Engineering, and peer analytics teams to turn insights into tangible business impact.

 

What we’re looking for: 

    Minimum requirements:
        Strong analytical and quantitative background with 10+ years of professional experience, including 5+ years leading, developing, and scaling high-performing analytics or data science teams.
        Degree in Analytics, Data Science, Economics, Engineering, Mathematics, or another quantitative field.
        Proven leadership experience in both technical and business domains within data science, analytics, or finance.
        Exceptional communication skills, with a track record of deriving actionable insights  and driving decision makings from complex analyses and balancing rigorous, methodical problem-solving with creative, unstructured approaches.
    Preferred qualifications:
        Experience in technology, fintech businesses, or financial services. Auto / consumer lending experience not required but preferred. 
        Ability to craft executive-ready narratives around complex business or performance topics, leveraging visualization and analytics frameworks to successfully influence and drive C-level decision-making.
        Proven ability to mentor and coach teams on technical subjects.

 

What you’ll love :

    Competitive Compensation (base + bonus & equity)
    Comprehensive medical, dental, and vision coverage with Health Savings Account contributions from Upstart
    401(k) with 100% company match up to $4,500 and immediate vesting and after-tax savings
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)
    Life and disability insurance
    Generous holiday, vacation, sick and safety leave  
    Supportive parental, family care, and military leave programs
    Annual wellness, technology & ergonomic reimbursement programs
    Social activities including team events and onsites, all-company updates, employee resource groups (ERGs), and other interest groups such as book clubs, fitness, investing, and volunteering
    Catered lunches + snacks & drinks when working in offices
