https://mycareer.verizon.com/jobs/r-1074538/associate-director-data-science/?source=jb-linkedin

Associate Director, Data Science

    Basking Ridge, New Jersey Alpharetta, Georgia Irving, Texas 

... ([All 5 locations])

Job ID: R-1074538

Apply prior to the end date: September 5th, 2025 

When you join Verizon

You want more out of a career. A place to share your ideas freely — even if they’re daring or different. Where the true you can learn, grow, and thrive. At Verizon, we power and empower how people live, work and play by connecting them to what brings them joy. We do what we love — driving innovation, creativity, and impact in the world. Our V Team is a community of people who anticipate, lead, and believe that listening is where learning begins. In crisis and in celebration, we come together — lifting our communities and building trust in how we show up, everywhere & always. Want in? Join the #VTeamLife.

What you’ll be doing...

The Artificial Intelligence & Data (AI&D) Organization is an exciting center of excellence supporting all of Verizon. Our team will be a catalyst to Verizon's future in creating networks that move the world forward through the power of Artificial Intelligence & Data.

You will leverage advanced analytics and Generative AI (GenAI) to drive competitive intelligence, inform strategy and create actionable insights. You will use deep analytical skills to build a Center of Excellence focussed on bringing together different datasets for insights generation.

You will be a strategic thinker joining a high profile, high visibility team that powers analytics and strategic thinking for Verizon. The Market and Network Intelligence team focuses on using competitive intelligence, network data and consumer data to enable decision making and drive insights into the business. You will lead a team that builds tools, analyses, and insights that informs, quantifies, and enables the visualization of data.

    Bring a consultative mindset to transform data into actionable insights to achieve business outcomes 

    Discovery of third party datasets, enabling rapid and scalable intelligence gathering from structured and unstructured sources (e.g., news, social media, financial reports, customer feedback etc.)

    Lead a strong internal data analytics team to support the business.

    Collaborate with cross-functional teams to translate analytics-driven insights into strategic business recommendations. 

    Performing exploratory and targeted data analyses using descriptive statistics and other methods.

    Presenting results and recommendations to senior management and business users.

    Mentor and elevate analytics professionals, building a team that combines technical expertise with business acumen to drive sustained competitive advantage 

What we’re looking for...

You are the one reading up on the latest standard methodologies in data mining and visualization. You can visualize the big picture strategy, but can also break it down into the components to get the job done. You believe that the best decisions are based in data and you’re the one that knows how to tease out the key learning within a dataset. You have credibility with people because you are a specialist in all things data but you also know how to bring it down to the level that your audience can understand—that’s practical and will help the business improve. And you’re an effective and inspiring leader who brings out the best in others.

You’ll need to have:

    Bachelor’s degree or four or more years of relevant work experience

    Six or more years of relevant experience

    Experience leading analytical teams

    Demonstrated experience applying GenAI or advanced analytics tools in business 

    Knowledge of forward-looking technologies and trends, including Generative AI (prompt engineering)

    Ability to present complex or technical topics in an engaging way

Even better if you have one or more of the following:

    MBA and/or Master's of Engineering or technical field

    Understanding of telecom industry trends, competitive landscape and the role of AI in business strategy

    Prior experience at a top-tier consulting firm or in a strategy/analytics role at a major telecom company is highly desirable

    Experience with quantitative modeling, statistics, or data mining.

    Strong understanding of data science

    Experience with Alteryx or similar ETL/geospatial tools

If Verizon and this role sound like a fit for you, we encourage you to apply even if you don’t meet every “even better” qualification listed above.