Senior Manager, Advanced Analytics (Ops & Fleet)

About the job
Position Summary

The Sr. Manager, Advanced Analytics develops actionable insights and solutions to strategic business challenges by leveraging advanced modeling and analytical techniques. The Sr. Manager is responsible for all aspects of advanced analytics including the preparation of data, development and implementation of models, design and execution of experiments, and presentation of results.

Principle Responsibilities

Participates in determination of stakeholder needs and ensures business value is realized. Determines data analysis goals given business objectives. Determines data requirements and performance metrics to support analysis. 
Implements best practices and repeatable processes that ensure consistent, quality delivery of modeling and analytics work. This encompasses responsibility for quality control including ensuring that appropriate documentation and peer review processes are in place.
Partners with business customers as a thought leader to identify research and/or business opportunities that the analytics team can support.
Prepares complex data for analysis, e.g. cleansing, conditioning, transforming, handling missing fields, feature engineering, and handling multivariate data.
Modifies and analyzes data sets using complex analytics techniques such as machine learning, advanced statistical analysis, mathematical optimization and simulation. Identifies modeling attributes and parameters. Applies algorithms to create descriptive, predictive or prescriptive models to achieve analysis and business goals.
Evaluates and validates correctness of models and analysis. Assesses and confirms performance of models and analysis. Validates that models and analyses meet business objectives.
Works with field organizations to construct statistically valid tests of new initiatives. Responsible for experimental design, measurement of results and the development of strategy insights and implications.
Conducts extensive analysis around price elasticity, willingness to pay, competitive assessment, and price-volume trade off curves.
Communicates analytical results to clients in a consultative manner, and always at a level that is consistent with the target audience
Demonstrates attention to detail, organization, and deliverables, including driving projects to completion in accordance with established timelines.
Builds and manages a best-in-class advanced analytics team.
Performs other job-related duties as assigned or apparent.

Qualifications

Master’s degree
Waste Industry experience or experience working in a subscription-based industry. 

Minimum Qualifications

Bachelor’s Degree in an analytical field (Mathematics, Economics, Computer Science, Information Management, Statistics, Finance, Engineering, etc.).
2+ years of experience leading analysts directly or in a matrix capacity as part of large, complex projects requiring resources across multiple teams.
5+ Years of experience and demonstrated knowledge of applying statistics and multivariate analytical techniques including multivariate regression, logistic regression, cluster analysis, design of experiments, machine learning, and decision trees to real word business problems. 
5+ years of experience and demonstrated proficiency with quantitative tools including MS SQL, SAS, R, Python or similar statistical software.
5+ years of experience building, managing and manipulating large data sets in a database environment
5+ years of experience working with IT or other operational resources to automate analytics workflows and models.
Demonstrated proficiency with MS Office including Word, SQL Server, and PowerPoint. Excel skills should be advanced 

Role Highlignts

Prior leadership experience is required, experience as a Data Scientist preferred.
Knowledge of logistics, supply chain, and fleet management a plus. Applied experience with experimental design, time series modeling, and optimization preferred.
Collaborates with business leaders to define a roadmap of data science deliverables.
Leads the team in defining and developing production-ready solutions.
Role is based in Phoenix, AZ.

Rewarding Compensation And Benefits

Eligible employees can elect to participate in:

 Comprehensive medical benefits coverage, dental plans and vision coverage.
 Health care and dependent care spending accounts.
 Short- and long-term disability.
 Life insurance and accidental death & dismemberment insurance.
 Employee and Family Assistance Program (EAP).
 Employee discount programs.
 Retirement plan with a generous company match.
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP).

The statements used herein are intended to describe the general nature and level of the work being performed by an employee in this position, and are not intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of responsibilities, duties and skills required by an incumbent so classified. Furthermore, they do not establish a contract for employment and are subject to change at the discretion of the Company.

EEO STATEMENT:Republic Services is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, age, disability, protected veteran status, relationship or association with a protected veteran (spouses or other family members), genetic information, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law.

About The Company

Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) is a leader in the environmental services industry. We provide customers with the most complete set of products and services, including recycling, waste, special waste, hazardous waste and field services. Our industry-leading commitments to advance circularity and support decarbonization are helping deliver on our vision to partner with customers to create a more sustainable world.

In 2023, Republic’s total company revenue was $14.9 billion, and adjusted EBITDA was $4.4 billion. We serve 13 million customers and operate more than 1,000 locations, including collection and transfer stations, recycling and polymer centers, treatment facilities, and landfills.

Although we operate across North America, the collection, recycling, treatment, or disposal of materials is a local business, and the dynamics and opportunities differ in each market we serve. By combining local operational management with standardized business practices, we drive greater operating efficiencies across the company while maintaining day-to-day operational decisions at the local level, closest to the customer.

Our customers, including small businesses, major corporations and municipalities, want a partner with the expertise and capabilities to effectively manage their multiple recycling and waste streams. They choose Republic Services because we are committed to exceeding their expectations and helping them achieve their sustainability goals. Our 41,000 team members understand that it's not just what we do that matters, but how we do it.

Our Company Values Guide Our Daily Actions

Safe: We protect the livelihoods of our colleagues and communities.
Committed to Serve: We go above and beyond to exceed our customers’ expectations.
Environmentally Responsible: We take action to improve our environment.
Driven: We deliver results in the right way.
Human-Centered: We respect the dignity and unique potential of every person.

We are proud of our high employee engagement score of 86. We have an inclusive and diverse culture where every voice counts. In addition, our team positively impacted 4.6 million people in 2023 through the Republic Services Charitable Foundation and local community grants. These projects are designed to meet the specific needs of the communities we serve, with a focus on building sustainable neighborhoods.

STRATEGY

Republic Services’ strategy is designed to generate profitable growth. Through acquisitions and industry advancements, we safely and sustainably manage our customers’ multiple waste streams through a North American footprint of vertically integrated assets.

We focus on three areas of growth to meet the increasing needs of our customers: recycling and waste, environmental solutions and sustainability innovation.

With our integrated approach, strengthening our position in one area advances other areas of our business. For example, as we grow volume in recycling and waste, we collect additional material to bolster our circularity capabilities. And as we expand environmental solutions, we drive additional opportunities to provide these services to our existing recycling and waste customers.

Recycling and Waste

We continue to expand our recycling and waste business footprint throughout North America through organic growth and targeted acquisitions. The 13 million customers we serve and our more than 5 million pick-ups per day provide us with a distinct advantage. We aggregate materials at scale, unlocking new opportunities for advanced recycling. In addition, we are cross-selling new products and services to better meet our customers’ specific needs.

Environmental Solutions

Our comprehensive environmental solutions capabilities help customers safely manage their most technical waste streams. We are expanding both our capabilities and our geographic footprint. We see strong growth opportunities for our offerings, including PFAS remediation, an increasing customer need.

SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION

Republic’s recent innovations to advance circularity and decarbonization demonstrate our unique ability to leverage sustainability as a platform for growth.

The Republic Services Polymer Center is the nation’s first integrated plastics recycling facility. This innovative site processes rigid plastics from our recycling centers, producing recycled materials that promote true bottle-to-bottle circularity. We also formed Blue Polymers, a joint venture with Ravago, to develop facilities that will further process plastic material from our Polymer Centers to help meet the growing demand for sustainable packaging. We are building a network of Polymer Centers and Blue Polymer facilities across North America.

We continue to advance decarbonization at our landfills. As demand for renewable energy continues to grow, we have 70 landfill gas-to-energy projects in operation and plan to expand our portfolio to 115 projects by 2028.

RECENT RECOGNITION

Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies
CDP Discloser
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices
Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies
Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies
Great Place to Work
Sustainability Yearbook S&P Global